Version 3 and ESM Updates for Lesson 2 (#16)
uncenter/learn-eleventy: 2.md

Now we have a better idea of what Eleventy is and have the tools we need to get started, let’s make something that we can see in the browser.

> Next we'll add one of the most important files for the project: `eleventy.config.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we'll add one of the most important files for the project: `eleventy.config.js`.
```

> >[!INFO] CJS Modules to ESM
> > Previously for the course, CommonJS (CJS) was used to configure Eleventy as well as to export (`module.exports`) and import (`require()`) other js modules. Eleventy's recent update (version 3) now supports the use of ECMAScript Modules (ESM) which is now simply `export` and `import`. While either CJS or ESM can be used, ESM is the preferred implementation because its the standardised way to handle modules in both NodeJS and browser environments whereas the CJS module system was limited to just NodeJS. To keep things short and simple, CJS brings no benefits to browsers which this site is being developed for and can actually be a deteriment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think this information is necessary.

Create a new file in your `eleventy-from-scratch` folder called `eleventy.config.js` and add the following to it:

```js
export default function(eleventyConfig) {

    eleventyConfig.setInputDirectory("src");
    eleventyConfig.setOutputDirectory("dist");
};
```

> >[!TIP]
> > Asynchronous callbacks are also possible by writing the default configuration function like this:
> > ```js
> > export default async function(eleventyConfig) {
> > 	//Add config methods
> > };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Not necessary since I don't think async is used in this course and this is only adding confusion.

Author: Just addressed later in Lesson9 when APIs are introduced but its definitely not needed/relevant for the config file or any callback methods.

This is our [Eleventy config file](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/config/). It's the beating heart of your Eleventy site. It delegates and instructs everything that makes up the final output.

> What we've just added is the core, most basic config. We have defined a default export function where the object `eleventyConfig` gives us full access to Eleventy's configuration API allowing us to configure Eleventy's default behaviour. These settings tell Eleventy to look in the src folder (through the callback: `eleventyConfig.setInputDirectory("src")`) for all of our content, templates and other source code, and tell it to use dist `eleventyConfig.setOutputDirectory("dist")` as the output folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What we've just added is the core, most basic config. We have defined a default export, a function where the argument `eleventyConfig` provides access to Eleventy's configuration API. These settings tell Eleventy to look in the `src/` folder for our input content, templates and other source code, and tell it to use `dist/` as the output folder.
```

Remember: the output will be folders and HTML pages (at the moment).

> >[!TIP] Shaping your Configuration File
> > With Eleventy version 3, you have a number of ways that you can build your configuration file. Using callback methods is the preferred way but as we'll see in the next lesson, not all configurations have a callback method to Eleventy's configuration API. You can even use the old implementation of returning configuration objects if you want (not preferred though):
> >```js
> >export default function(eleventyConfig) {
> >	return {
> >    dir: {
> >      input: "views",
> >      output: "dist"
> >    }
> >  };
> >};

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Not necessary.

We'll create `package.json` in our `eleventy-from-scratch` folder and add the following to it:

```json
{
	"name": "eleventy-from-scratch",
	"version": "1.0.0",
	"description": "",
	"main": ".eleventy.js",
	"main": "eleventy.config.js",
	"scripts": {
		"test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
		"start": "eleventy --serve"
	},
	"keywords": [],
	"author": "",
	"license": "ISC"
	"type": "module"
}
```

What's happened here is that npm has generated a `package.json` file for us, and by using the `-y` flag, we told it to answer **yes** to all of the questions it would normally ask.
What we have done here is created our `package.json` file and added the necessary properties to it for our project. `main` defines our package's entry point and `type: module` gives our package the module type so that Node knows to parse it as an ES module. Finally, the `start` script gives us a more convenient way of running Eleventy (more on that in the next section).

Now that’s sorted, we can install Eleventy. In the terminal, run the following command:

```sh
npm install @11ty/eleventy
```

We’ve installed a **local** version of Eleventy in our project. Let’s make it do something!

> > [!TIP]

Reviewer: I've removed this (GitHub wouldn't let me comment on it first since it isn't a "changed line"...) since I don't think the quick start suggests installing it globally (anymore?). I removed the emphasis from "**local**" in the above sentence to match.

> ```json

Reviewer: In this section I think we should avoid anything to do with `npm init` or `npm pkg set` and simply provide the JSON they need to add to the file - most of the default fields are unnecessary.

Reviewer: We can replace lines 35-76 with instructions to use the "final" JSON from 135-147 (minus the lines that include 11ty already in the dependencies).

Author: Ah yeah I see what you're getting at. And yeah if we're to keep using `npm start`, we still need to install Eleventy for the project. You can run `npx @11ty/eleventy --serve` without needing to install the package but that'll experience problems later down the road when other dependencies come into play. Not to mention more to type every time we want to run it.

Author: Just pushed a commit updating Lesson2's `package.json` setup.

```json
{
  "name": "eleventy-from-scratch",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "main": "eleventy.config.js",
  "scripts": {

>     "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1",
>     "stop": "npx eleventy --serve"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "start": "eleventy --serve"
```

  },

>   "keywords": [],
>   "author": "",
>   "license": "ISC",
>   "description": "",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
